docs: add Walrus Console beta documentation (#3540)
MystenLabs/walrus: docs/content/console/api-reference.mdx

---
title: API Reference
description: The Walrus Console external API surface for spaces, buckets, files, and Seal sponsorship, including authentication, conventions, and error codes.
keywords: [walrus console, api reference, spaces, buckets, files, seal, api keys]
---

The Walrus Console external API covers the endpoints third-party developers use to manage spaces, buckets, and files, plus the [Seal](/docs/data-security) sponsorship endpoints that back private-bucket access control.

:::info

> The Walrus Console external API is in alpha and currently available on Testnet only, at `https://api.testnet.harbor.walrus.xyz`. The endpoint structure might change before Mainnet GA. For a guided walkthrough of the full encrypted flow, start with the [Quick Start](./quickstart). For the product model behind these endpoints, see the [concepts and overview](./overview).

Reviewer: - Please update “The Walrus Console external API is in alpha” to “The Console developer API is in beta.”
- Please remove “currently available on Testnet only.”
- Please change https://api.testnet.harbor.walrus.xyz to https://api.console.walrus.xyz.
- Please update “The endpoint structure might change before Mainnet GA.” to “Endpoint shapes might change before GA.”

:::

## Authentication

Every request carries an API key as a bearer token:

```http
Authorization: Bearer hbr_…
```

Mint keys through the Console web interface. Each key has one of two roles:

1. `read_write` keys can change state: create and delete buckets, upload and delete files, and finalize private buckets.
2. `read_only` keys can list, check status, and download only. Any write with a read-only key returns `403` with code `read_only_api_key`.

A request with no valid key returns `401`. A key without access to the target resource returns `403`.

## Base URL and conventions

All paths are relative to the base URL and prefixed with `/api/v1`:

```

> https://api.testnet.harbor.walrus.xyz

Reviewer: Please change https://api.testnet.harbor.walrus.xyz to https://api.console.walrus.xyz

---

> title: API reference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: API Reference
```

description: The Walrus Console external API surface for spaces, buckets, files, and Seal sponsorship, including authentication, conventions, and error codes.
keywords: [walrus console, api reference, spaces, buckets, files, seal, api keys]
---

> This reference covers the Walrus Console external API: the endpoints third-party developers

Reviewer 2: Can we remove the linting for the line length? The docs pages are excluded from that check so it isn't necessary

> use to manage spaces, buckets, and files, plus the Seal sponsorship endpoints that back

Reviewer 2: Should either link to Seal docs/info or remove mention of it here. Without context, can be confusing what Seal is.

private-bucket access control.

:::note

This documents the current Testnet surface, hosted at `https://api.testnet.harbor.walrus.xyz`.
The API is in alpha and endpoint shapes may change before Mainnet GA. For a guided walkthrough
of the full encrypted flow, start with the [quickstart](./quickstart). For the product model

> behind these endpoints, see the [concepts and overview](./overview).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This documents the current Testnet surface, hosted .
The API is in alpha and currently only available on Testnet at `https://api.testnet.harbor.walrus.xyz`. The endpoint structure may change before Mainnet GA. For a guided walkthrough
of the full encrypted flow, start with the [quickstart](./quickstart). For the product model
behind these endpoints, see the [concepts and overview](./overview).
```

:::

## Authentication

Every request carries an API key as a bearer token:

```http
Authorization: Bearer hbr_…
```

> You mint keys in the Console web app. Each key has one of two roles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mint keys through the Console web interface. Each key has one of two roles:
```

- `read_write` keys can change state: create and delete buckets, upload and delete files, and
  finalize private buckets.
- `read_only` keys can list, check status, and download only. Any write with a read-only key
  returns `403` with code `read_only_api_key`.

A request with no valid key returns `401`. A key without access to the target resource returns
`403`.

## Base URL and conventions

All paths are relative to the base URL and prefixed with `/api/v1`:

```
https://api.testnet.harbor.walrus.xyz
```

Request and response bodies are JSON unless noted (file upload uses `multipart/form-data`,
and download returns a raw byte stream). Resource identifiers are UUIDs.

### Pagination

List endpoints return an opaque cursor. Pass `limit` to set page size and `cursor` to fetch

> the next page. When there are no more results, the cursor field is `null`. Bucket lists return

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the next page. When there are no further results, the cursor field returns `null`. Bucket lists return
```

the cursor as `next_cursor`; file lists return it under `pagination.nextCursor`.

### Asynchronous operations

> Upload and delete are asynchronous. Upload returns `202` with a file id, then you poll the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upload and delete operations are asynchronous. Upload returns `202` with a file ID, then you poll the
```

Reviewer 2: Blob ID or file ID here?

file status endpoint until the state is `completed`. Delete returns `204` immediately and
releases storage after a background worker confirms the removal.

## Errors

> Error responses use a consistent shape:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Error responses use the shape:
```

```json
{ "error": "Human-readable message", "code": "machine_readable_code" }
```

> The `code` field is present when a machine-readable value applies. Common codes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `code` field is present when a machine-readable value applies. Common error codes include:
```

| `api_key_registering` / `api_key_revoking` / `api_key_revoked` | The key is not currently usable. |
| `bucket_not_in_scope` | The key cannot access the target bucket. |
| `bucket_not_finalized` | The bucket has not completed the finalize step. |
| `mirror_missing_grant` | The onchain access grant has not yet mirrored into the access index. Retry. |
| `quota_exceeded` | The operation exceeds the plan or storage quota. |
| `payload_too_large` | The upload exceeds the size limit. |
| `bad_request` | The request failed validation. |
| `USED_NONCE` / `EXPIRED_TIMESTAMP` / `ADDRESS_MISMATCH` / `INVALID_CHALLENGE` | Wallet challenge errors, returned by the signature-authentication flow. |

Create-bucket requests that exceed a plan limit return `422` with a distinct shape:

```json
{ "code": "PLAN_LIMIT_EXCEEDED", "limit": "storage", "currentTier": "free" }
```

The `limit` value is one of `storage`, `users`, or `buckets`.

## Spaces

A space is the top-level container for your data. Console creates a Personal Space at sign-up.

### List spaces

`GET /api/v1/spaces`

Lists all spaces accessible to the authenticated user.

> | Parameter | In | Required | Description |

Reviewer 2: what does "In" mean here?

| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `type` | query | No | Filter by space type: `personal` or `team`. |

Returns `200` with a `data` array of spaces. Each space includes `id`, `type`, `name`,
`storage_used`, `storage_cap`, `bucket_count`, `role`, and `created_at`. Team spaces also
include `member_count`.

### List buckets in a space

`GET /api/v1/spaces/{id}/buckets`

> | Parameter | In | Required | Description |

Reviewer 2: What does "in" mean here?

| `q` | query | No | Case-insensitive substring match on bucket name. |
| `visibility` | query | No | Filter by `public` or `private`. |
| `sortField` | query | No | `name`, `date`, or `storage`. Default `date`. |
| `sortOrder` | query | No | `asc` or `desc`. Default `desc`. |

Returns `200` with `buckets` and `next_cursor`.

### Create a bucket

`POST /api/v1/spaces/{id}/buckets`

Reserves a private bucket. This is the first step of the reserve, sign, and finalize handshake.
In the current alpha, `scope` accepts `private` only.

Body:

```json
{ "name": "secrets", "scope": "private" }
```

Returns `201` with the reservation:

```json
{
  "bucket_id": "…",
  "bytes": "<base64 sponsored Sui transaction>",
  "digest": "…",
  "state": "pending_policy"
}
```

Sign `bytes` locally with your service key, then call the finalize endpoint. The bucket stays
in `pending_policy` and accepts no uploads until finalize succeeds. A name conflict returns
`409`. A plan-limit breach returns `422`. See the [quickstart](./quickstart) for the full
signing flow.

### List files in a space

`GET /api/v1/spaces/{id}/files`

Searches files across every bucket in the space.

> | Parameter | In | Required | Description |

Reviewer 2: what does "in" refer to here?

| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | path | Yes | Space UUID. |
| `limit` | query | No | Page size, 1 to 100. Default 20. |
| `cursor` | query | No | Cursor from a previous page. |
| `q` | query | No | Case-insensitive substring match on file name. |
| `sortField` | query | No | `name`, `date`, `size`, or `type`. Default `date`. |
| `sortOrder` | query | No | `asc` or `desc`. Default `desc`. |

Returns `200` with `data` and a `pagination` object (`limit`, `hasMore`, `nextCursor`).

## Buckets

> A bucket holds files inside a space. Private buckets store Seal ciphertext only.

Reviewer 2: link to Seal

### Get a bucket

`GET /api/v1/buckets/{id}`

Returns `200` with the bucket under `data`: `id`, `space_id`, `name`, `oyster_bucket_name`,
`visibility`, `seal_policy_id`, `storage_used`, `created_at`, and `updated_at`.

### Update a bucket

`PUT /api/v1/buckets/{id}`

| Field | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | `name` | Yes | New bucket name, 1 to 100 characters. |

Reviewer 2: what characters? all characters, alpha/numeric?

> | `sealPolicyId` | No | Seal policy id. Pass `null` to clear. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `sealPolicyId` | No | Seal policy ID. Pass `null` to clear. |
```

### Delete a bucket

`DELETE /api/v1/buckets/{id}?confirm=true`

Requires the `confirm=true` query parameter, and the bucket must be empty. Returns `204` with
an `X-Deleted-Id` header. A missing confirmation, a validation error, or a non-empty bucket
returns `400`.

### Finalize a private bucket

`POST /api/v1/buckets/{id}/finalize`

Submits the signature over the reserved transaction bytes to activate a pending private bucket.

Body:

```json
{ "signature": "<base64 signature>" }
```

Returns `200`:

```json
{ "bucket_id": "…", "seal_policy_id": "…", "state": "active" }
```

`seal_policy_id` is the onchain bucket-policy object used by Seal for access checks. The bucket
is now ready for uploads.

### List files in a bucket

`GET /api/v1/buckets/{id}/files`

Takes the same `limit`, `cursor`, `q`, `sortField`, and `sortOrder` parameters as the space
file listing. Returns `200` with `data` and `pagination`.

### Upload a file

`POST /api/v1/buckets/{id}/files`

Uploads a file asynchronously using `multipart/form-data`.

| Field | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `file` | Yes | The file bytes. For private buckets, upload the Seal-encrypted object. |

> | `name` | No | File name, up to 255 characters. |

Reviewer 2: what characters?

> | `metadata` | No | JSON object string persisted with the file. Maximum 8 KB. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `metadata` | No | JSON object string persisted with the file. Maximum 8 KiB. |
```

Returns `202` with the file summary under `data`. Poll the status endpoint until the state is
`completed`.

> :::note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info
```

Reviewer 2: always prefer info over note - better visualization

Just after finalize, the onchain access grant needs a few seconds to mirror into the access
index. Until it does, upload returns `403` with code `mirror_missing_grant`. Retry every few

> seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After finalize, the on-chain access grant takes a few seconds to propagate to the access index. During this window, uploads fail with a `403` and the error code `mirror_missing_grant`. Retry every few seconds until the grant appears.
```

:::

Other responses: `409` when the bucket is not finalized or a file name is duplicated, `413`

> when the payload is too large, `422` when a quota is exceeded, and `429` when rate limited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other responses include `409` (bucket not finalized or duplicate file name), `413` (payload too large), `422` (quota exceeded), and `429` (rate limited).
```

## Files

### Get file metadata

`GET /api/v1/buckets/{id}/files/{fileId}`

Returns `200` with the file summary under `data`: `id`, `bucket_id`, `name`, `blob_id`,
`oyster_object_id`, `size`, `mime_type`, `status`, `is_private`, `metadata`, `created_at`,
`updated_at`, and `deleted_at`.

### Delete a file

`DELETE /api/v1/buckets/{id}/files/{fileId}`

Marks the file as `deleting` and enqueues a background job to remove the underlying blob.
Returns `204` immediately. Storage is released after the worker confirms the delete. Repeated

> calls for the same file id are deduplicated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
calls for the same file ID are deduplicated.
```

### Get upload status

`GET /api/v1/buckets/{id}/files/{fileId}/status`

Polls the state of an in-flight upload after the upload endpoint returns `202`.

Returns `200` with `data.state`, one of `queued`, `active`, `completed`, or `failed`. When the
worker reports it, `data.progress` gives fractional progress from 0 to 1. When the state is
`failed`, `data.error` includes a `code` and `message`. Once the job leaves the queue, this
endpoint returns `404`; confirm completion through the file metadata endpoint after that.

### Download a file

`GET /api/v1/buckets/{id}/files/{fileId}/download`

Streams the raw file content with `Content-Type` and `Content-Disposition` headers. For a
private bucket, this returns the Seal ciphertext, which you decrypt client-side. See the
[quickstart](./quickstart) for the decrypt flow.

A file in `deleting` or `deleted` status returns `423`. An unavailable blob stream returns
`500`.

## Seal sponsorship

These endpoints build and sponsor the onchain bucket-policy transactions that manage private

> access. Console sponsors the gas through Enoki, so your service key signs but does not need a

Reviewer 2: link to enoki docs

| `kind` | Purpose | Additional fields |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `bucket_group_create` | Create a bucket access group. | `bucketId` |
| `grant_bucket_access` | Grant access to recipients. | `groupIds`, `recipientAddress`, `scope` (`read` or `readwrite`) |
| `share_admin` | Add an admin to a group. | `groupId`, `member` |
| `unshare` | Remove a member from a group. | `groupId`, `member` |
| `unshare_bucket_access` | Revoke a service signer's access. | `groupId`, `serviceSignerAddress` |

Returns `200` with `bytes` and `digest`.

### Execute a sponsored transaction

`POST /api/v1/seal/sponsor/{digest}/execute`

Submits the signature over the sponsored bytes. Console broadcasts the transaction and returns
the onchain digest.

| Parameter | In | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `digest` | path | Yes | The sponsor digest from the sponsor endpoint. |

Body:

```json
{ "signature": "<base64 signature>" }
```

Returns `200` with the onchain `digest`. An expired or unknown digest returns `404`.

## Next steps

- Work through the [quickstart](./quickstart) to see these endpoints in a full encrypted flow.

> - Review the [concepts and overview](./overview) for the space, bucket, and file model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: Redundant, Docusaurus generates these cards at the bottom automatically
